All right.
So we have a new exercise here.
This one is asking you to use both a for loop and a while loop to generate the following stunning emoji
art.
So the first thing I mentioned to print this happy face or smiley face.
You need to print this special string so you can just copy that.
Or if you don't you can try and replace it with just an asterisk or any symbol.
So I don't really care if it doesn't have to be the emoji.
And if for some reason the emoji won't print correctly on your machine just use a star or a hash or
whatever.
And so you'll need to use both the for loop and a while loop.
And the idea is that you're just printing you know one out and then two and then three and four and
then five up to 10 and you can take advantage of the fact that you can multiply a string by a number
to print it out multiple times.
Or an alternative.
Not necessarily a better one is to actually have nested loops so I'll show you that as a potential option
as well.
So both for loop and a while loop.
Print out one all the way up to 10 smiley faces.
Give it a shot.
Let me throw up the positive video thing.
There you are Pozzo video in three to one and I'm back.
Well actually never left it over to my terminal make a new file.
I will call this one art p y OK and let's start with the for loop version.
And before I go any further let me copy this.
So don't forget that.
Put that up here and I can just show you if we execute this now.
Python 3.
Art we get one little happy face.
OK.
So let's go for and we want to do something 10 times so we could do for X or let's do some in range
and we could just do 10 like this.
But the thing is remember that's going to go from zero to 10.
And what I'm going to do is take advantage of the fact that I can multiply.
So I'm going to take this string one happy face.
Multiply it by two or by ten and it will repeat itself 10 times.
But if I start at zero.
Multiplying it by zero is not going to give me the result I want.
So I want to start at 1.
So we'll go from 1 to 11 just like that.
And next thing we'll do is just print this actually copy this line up here just like that.
So starting at one or going to print the string one time then next time through the loop is to say we're
going to print this two times and each time we print it's on a separate line.
So the result is hopefully let's see if we got it right.
There we go.
We go from one down to ten.
One two three four five six seven eight nine ten.
Perfect.
OK.
So let's do the same thing with a WHILE loop.
So we want to have a variable let's just call it yeah why not times.
And it's going to start at 1 and then we'll have our while in the condition and we want this loop to
keep running wild times is less than 11 or less than or equal to 10.
Either one and in here we're going to copy this and just steal from it but change numb to be times.
And if I don't if I read it now we'd have an infinite loop where it would just print one smiley face
on every line forever to the end of time.
To my computer battery died.
But what we want instead is to add one to times each time through the loop.
So it starts at 1.
Is times less than 11.
Yep it's one.
So we're going to print one smiley face.
Now times is added 1.
So it's two.
OK is 2 less than 11.
Yep.
So we print 2.
Now we're on three and we keep going until we hit 10.
It's 10 less than 11.
Yes.
So we're going to print 10 and add one.
So times is now 11 times less than 11.
No.
All right.
Let's see if it works.
Looks good.
We get two of the exact same thing.
So this is kind of fun.
I'm going to comment this out and I want to show nested loops very briefly.
So let's say that I want to do this entire thing three times.
Well I could easily do that with another loop.
So I'll just say for x in range 3
and I'll just put this code in that loop.
So I need to indented properly.
So we're not using x.
This just says repeated what's whatever's in here.
Get rid of that equal sign whatever's in here three times and then what happens to be is that we're
going to print three.
We're going to print a pyramid from 1 to 10 3 different times so let's see what it looks like.
Make clear give us as much space as we need.
And there we go.
So we just nested a loop instead of another one.
We were repeating something that is repeating something on its own.
So the weird nested loops solution that I want to show you that that's not better.
But let's say you didn't know about this multiplying by a string by a number.
What we could do instead.
I'm going to cut that out and just start fresh the bottom and say Here we go and we won't do a nested
loop like that.
So what we could do right here this is essentially a loop where we're printing this and we're multiplying
it.
So we are adding in remember multiplication is basically addition multiple times.
So what we could do is take this and add it to itself each time.
So I'll make a new variable in here and I'll just call it time equals those to count count and I'll
set it at 1 and then I'll do while count is less than numb I'm going to and this is get crazy.
So I'm going to make a variable string that I'll call not as TR Let's go with smileys and I'll set it
at an empty string.
Ok then in here I'm going to add this in to Smiley's every time.
So smileys plus equals a new smiley face and I need to then say count plus equals 1.
And then at the very end outside the while loop we will print smile's with parentheses.
OK.
So this is a gross gross solution compared to this multiplication.
But I just want to show that you could replace that multiplication with a nested.
So what's happening here.
OK so let's say that we are on the fourth iteration of the outer loop.
OK what we're going to do is we have this variable count set to 1.
Each time it resets to 1 and our smileys is an empty string.
So wild count is less than numb which was four.
A while one is less than four that's true.
We're going to add 1 to our Smiley's variable.
So it gets one smiley face and then we add one to count.
So now count is two is to less than four.
Yes so we add another smiley face and so we have two smileys and then we keep going three and then four.
And I think this should actually be less than or equal to no.
Anyway let's see.
I miss a colon.
No it looks good.
So this is the wonky way of doing it.
So I'll just add a comment without string multiplication.
Ugly solution.
OK great.
So we'll leave it off there if you want to play around with this.
A fun challenge is to actually make this centered.
So rather than being you know what is this isosceles triangle.
Make it a triangle that is centered or a pyramid.
And to do that you would actually want to work with odd numbers so we could do something like this come
at this out again and let's go while we're less than 20 and we'll add two each time.
OK so we get one and then three and then five and then you would want to center them all.
So this bottom row would be unchanged but everything else would be shifted over to make a centered pyramid
and to do that you need to add space before each Moji to move them over.
So if you don't try that it's kind of a bit of a fun challenge.
Otherwise we're done.
We have another exercise after this.